(0:30) -- introduction

Damiaan has done the bachelors computer science at UvA. In his third year 
he went on exchange and got an internship offer in Canada. He did the 
internship for 8 months. After he did a masters AI in London. Then he went 
freelancing in the netherlands for around 8 months. Around two years ago 
he started working for the company he is working for now.

(2:30) -- Why did you decide to do your masters in the UK and not on the UvA

Damiaan was ready for something new. He also had some bad experiences with the 
students at the UvA bachelor. He wanted more competition.
Another setting was also appealing.

(4:50) -- What was the difference between studying in London and UvA

The same topics. The one in London is 90 EC in one year. Exams are much harder
because they are only 90 minutes

(7:30) -- Is that a good thing?

Damiaan is not sure if it is better because it learns you to perform under 
high pressure.

(9:20) -- Was your freelancing work related to you masters AI

Damiaan states that he had been working since 2011. He kept working there 
for the whole acadamic career. After his studies he continued working there. 
He is working at a spinoff of that company now.

(10:40) -- How was your transition from study to work.

Damiaan worked for 8 months during his bachelor and thinks this was very important for 
him. He learned to apply what he learned during his bachelors and it gave him 
the opportunity to know what he was interested in. 

Because of his experience he didn't feel like there was a big difference when 
going to work. He did say that he was very tired when working full time. It took 
him more than 1.5 year to get use to it.

(13:50) -- Do you think work should be more included in the university studies?

Damiaan thinks it is tricky in the Netherlands since we have HBO which is 
meant to be applied. He is concerned that the value of a university degree 
might decrease. He also says that there is enough room for university students 
in companies.

(15:00) -- Why did you decide to do a masters instead of continuing your internship.

He was of the opinion that he had seen enough at the company. He went back to 
do other courses. Damiaan states that you can be blinded by the money but he 
wanted some change and to study and says that that is more important than money.
He also wanted to work more with mathematical problem which he felt he was not 
doing.

(20:00) -- What is the biggest difference between studying and work.

It is different for everybody. Damiaan likes the academic way where you are 
tackling complex problems. A company is only interested in making money so it 
will not necessarily want you to solve complex problems. 
This means that you will do more tasks that are more uninteresting. 
Damiaan talks about his company and what they do. They create software for 
different parties including the fire department. The people from the fire 
department aren't really handy with technology so if something goes wrong, 
they will call Damiaan. This means that Damiaan is helping them a lot, 
which he does not find very interesting.
Damiaan thinks it is much less interesting to work compared to for instance 
writing your thesis. He still tries to implement interesting things in their 
company.

(28:00) -- What is your role in the company

Formaly Damiaan is the CTO, but the company does not have strict hierarchy since 
they are only 5 people. Damiaan leads the programming team.

(29:00) -- How much do you still programming

Still more than 60%, but that is because the company is not that big. 
The other time is spend having meeting and working together with other 
companies.

(31:00) -- Do you feel there are many differences between big and small companies, 
            and which do you prefer?

Damiaan thinks there are some differences. In big companies you have more 
hierarchy and things are more organized. In smaller companies you have more 
freedoms and more impact. Damiaan likes a smaller company better because he 
can have more impact.

(34:00) -- do you advise to start at a big or a small company after studies?

Damiaan thinks going to a bigger company is better because things are more 
organized and you will learn quicker. You will also see many things because 
they have much more things

(36:00) -- Do you think it is important to switch jobs often?

In the software engineering world switching companies every few years is 
beneficial. Damiaan does think it is not a bad thing to stay at the same company 
if you aren't compromising to much for it. Damiaan has been interviewing while 
he is working now. Damiaan does not like interviewing because you have to 
prepare many things that will not be of any use when you are working somewhere. 

(40:00) -- What do you think is important when you are searching for a job?

Damiaan thinks that the benefits should be similar to what he has now. 
He says he would take a salary cut, but only if he gets other benefits like 
the location being much better.

Damiaan is also looking for a job where he is solving complex mathematical problems 
but he has not been able to find it. Damiaan also thinks jobs look to much at 
experience compared to potential. 
Damiaan also want to make an impact and the jobs should be aligned with 
his ideals. The ideal for Damiaan would be a small company that works based 
on academic research and makes a product that improves the world.

Damiaan did get an offer from a such a company that was in oxford, but he 
turned it down due to everything around it. Damiaan is currently in a dilemma 
because his company is not very interesting but leaving would be a waste. 

Damiaan is also still thinking about PHD but thinks he than just delaying the 
problem.

(1:00:00) We start a discussion about the current AI market. 
Damiaan states that the biggest difference between work and studying is that 
you do very interesting things during your study but you will not do those things 
when working. 

